Danny Vesecky
Github: dvesecky1
Final Project Write-Up
	For this project, I attempted to compare data on global election integrity, conflict, and economic results on a country-by-country basis. I began by sourcing data from three different sources. For electoral integrity, I made use of the PEI index ranking each nation by the quality of its elections, released in summer of 2023. For conflict, I used the ACLED index ranking each nation by its degree of conflict, also released summer 2023. For economic output and other national statistics, I used the World Bank’s annual statistics. After downloading all the relevant data, I merged it into one dataframe for ease of access.
	I produced several plots for this project. The PEI index also categorizes countries from high to low electoral integrity, and I made use of these rankings to create a bar chart comparing election quality with conflict from the ACLED data. I also made use of the World Bank statistics on total population and GDP-per-captia to create a scatterplot that showed little correlation between the two. Using shiny, I created two interactive charts that allow the user to compare PEI and ACLED index rankings respectively with either of the relevant World Bank statistics. I endeavored to make the charts more interactive by creating a sidebar allowing the user to alter their text and point size.
	For the text processing portion of the project, I downloaded 12 articles from 2023, one from each month, each covering global conflict. I created a function that made a wordcloud of each article and made a wordcloud of the accumulation of all 12. I will be the first to admit that this is hardly a rigorous form of text analysis, however it creates a blueprint for a project that would analyze hundreds of such articles to produce more useful results.
	Finally, I regressed electoral integrity index placement against conflict index placement. The chart of this regression demonstrates that there is little correlation, and the r-squared is very low. I attribute this to the fact that I focused on data from 2023, and that I only made use of general index placements instead of rankings on more nuanced metrics of conflict and electoral integrity that the datasets provided. A more in-depth project, taking this one as a blueprint, might be able to sift through these metrics and attempt a larger quantity of regressions in order to see which ones produce signs of correlation. It is also worth examining the validity of this data – both PEI and ACLED draw most of their data from surveys, and response rates varied widely from region to region. In addition, the degree of simplification required to boil such complex topics down to a single ranking number in an index requires ignoring a great deal of more nuanced data. It is thus unsurprising that such indexes, however well produced, show little correlation with one another.